Our tongue can detect five basic tastes.
There is sweet, salty, sour, bitter,
and the rich savoury taste called umami.
But we enjoy not just five flavors,
but possibly over a hundred thousand.
How?
As we chew, we also smell our food.
Chewing releases aromas that pass up into our nose
through the back of our throat.
Taste and smell then combine to make the flavors we enjoy.
Our taste buds develop before we're born.
As an unborn baby swallows amniotic fluid,
it may taste what its mother eats,
and is more likely to enjoy the same food she does.
We don't eat just to survive.
We love to eat.
It makes us happy.
The Bible says why?
That everyone should eat and drink
and find enjoyment for all his hard work.
It is the gift of God.
Our world is full of sounds.
Some are natural.
Others we create.
We can hear music before we're born.
And can develop a love of music as we grow.
We can compose music.
Be moved by it.
And replay it in our minds.
Musical instruments typically combine a sound generator
which produces tones with a resonator,
such as wood or metal, which adds volume.
The design resembles our own vocal organs.
But few instruments compare to the beauty of the human voice.
Our hearing complements the voice.
We can listen to things that draw us closer to God
and use the voice He gave us to praise Him with joy.
Praise, John, for Jehovah is good.
Sing praise us to His name.
For it is pleasant.